---
title: "My yearly dose of Paris"
date: 2017-11-12T13:23:40+01:00
tags:
- travel
- paris
- france
- dotgo
- conference
- golang
---

Last weekend it was once again that time of the year when I hop onto a plane in
Graz and end up in Montmartre in Paris for [dotGo](https://www.dotgo.eu/). This
time around, I took some extra time off to explore the city and do some
shopping with my girlfriend and reacquaint myself with French cuisine at one of
my favourite restaurants: [Le petit
canard](http://www.resto-lepetitcanard.com/), only about 15 min away from our
Hotel near Gare Saint Lazard.

<figure><img src="/media/2017/ducksteak.jpg" alt=""><figcaption><p>Duck steak at Le petit canard</p></figcaption></figure>

dotGo itself is getting better and better with every year. I still absolutely
love the session length (with 18 min per talk) and French food for lunch and
during the breaks is something really hard to ignore... That being said, this
time I opted for a quite delicious little Chinese restaurant just two blocks
away. 

Writing about food again, am I not?! Well, back to the conference and the talks
in particular. I learnt so much and quite a bit of that I might be able to
apply pretty much right away during my day-to-day work. Perhaps the most
practical talk for me was by [Mat Ryer](http://matryer.com/) about testing,
closely followed by [John Cinnamond](https://twitter.com/jcinnamond)‚Äôs talk
about error handling. Combined with a little variation of Java's builder
pattern the latter already helped me just yesterday with keeping my
err-branches to a minimum and the code readable. Sadly, I once again missed
part of [Brian Ketelsen](https://brianketelsen.com/)'s talk but, as with his
talk at [GolangUK](https://www.golanguk.com/), I'm going to watch it once the
organisers have uploaded the recording!

This time I also managed to get one of the seats in the second floor which had
enough legroom even for someone of my height üòç

As this was my 5th dot conference I even got a custom hoodie alongside my
beautiful conference T-shirt, tons of stickers, and the blue gopher I managed
to order just in time for the conference üòÅ Now I have two of them!

<figure><img src="/media/2017/paris.jpg" alt=""><figcaption><p>View from the Arc de Triomphe</p></figcaption></figure>

The event ended with a downer, though: Looks like there won't be a dotGo 2018
but instead one in early 2019. As the first half of every year is normally
already filled with tons of other events I'm not sure that I will be able to
return to Paris for the next dotGo. That being said, I'm quite sure that this
won't have been my last trip to Paris for a Go event üòâ dotGo is just that
good! Big thanks to everyone who made it possible!
