---
date: '2016-05-16T14:41:55+02:00'
language: en
tags:
- spotify
- netflix
- entertainment
title: Streaming Services just might not be for me
---

Back in early 2011 I went on a conference trip to the US. [Spotify][] hadn't
been available in Austria at that point so I gave it a shot there. I was
instantly hooked and couldn't wait for the day they would launch back at home. I
haven't bought a single album since [Spotify opened in Austria][spat] at the end
of 2011. More or less the same thing happened with [Netflix][] except without
getting a sample before.

Ever since Netflix and Spotify were available to me, I've used them and I really
enjoyed them. It felt like having everything I could ever want out of these
media being at my fingertips. DVD boxes I had just bought weeks before lay in
the corner simply because their content was available on Netflix or Amazon Prime
anyway and it was simply so much more convenient.

Eventually, I lost those pink glasses, though. More and more of my playlists
were showing grayed out tracks. A good example here is my work playlist where I
had added the Halo Reach soundtrack. Now that whole album is no longer available
and that playlist has become rather useless to me.

<figure>
<img src="/media/2016/work-playlist.png" alt="" />
<figcaption><p>A big part of my work playlist is gone by now.</p></figcaption>
</figure>

Netflix has a similar problem. Not only do shows get pulled from it, but some
only have for instance the first seasons and then don't receive new ones for
ages if ever. Thanks to Netflix I've learnt about Person of Interest and Grimm,
two of my favorite shows by now. In Austria both are stuck at their respective
3rd season while season boxes for their respective 4th seasons have been
available on Amazon.de for 6 months by now. Same goes for Elementary. The
service is still awesome for their original content (Daredevil and Jessica Jones
especially) but that's about it for me.

This all makes me wonder, if spending EUR 10 per service and month is really
worth it. Especially for listening to music, iTunes + YouTube + Last.fm might be
a much better combination for me. If I like a song, I play it over and over
again. If I find 3 new songs I like in a month, that's a lot!  Spotify's weekly
mix is great but if I'm just looking for new music, Last.fm and then sampling
them for instance through YouTube might be much more cost-effective.

Also: While Spotify has a huge library, it doesn't have nearly everything. Back
in the early 2000s I enjoyed listning to J-Pop and J-Rock. That's not even
remotely available in the Austrian catalog. Importing CDs from over there is a
hassle but still better than not having access to that music at all. Same goes
for older songs that never became too popular to make it into the mainstream
catalog.

Back at the beginning I wrote that I hadn't bought an album ever since Spotify
launched. Well, that is no longer true as of two days ago and I've started to
buy my favorite tracks I found on Spotify all over again on iTunes and Amazon
just to make sure that they stay available to me. Same goes for DVDs. Chuck is
no longer available on Netflix (as of 2 months ago) and now I have the DVD box
sitting next to my TV. And don't get me started on that Castle marathon I'm in
right now...

I'm not yet sure, when I will cancel either of them, but in their current states
it's perhaps just be a matter of time. As for Netflix, just coming back whenever
a new season of Daredevil or Jessica Jones is out, could be a viable option, too
ðŸ˜‰

[spat]: https://news.spotify.com/us/2011/11/15/hello-austria-spotify-here/
[spotify]: https://www.spotify.com/
[netflix]: https://netflix.com
