---
title: "Protests against upload filters in the EU"
date: "2019-03-17T10:37:49+01:00"
tags:
- democracy
- eu
- article13
- copyright
---

Before anything else, if you haven't watched this video about the
proposed changes to the EU copyright law
([savetheinternet.info](https://savetheinternet.info/) for details),
please do so now, I'll wait:

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/CyUh9wOp_Rw"
frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media;
gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

And now on to the actual post:

Yesterday, the first ["official" protest
rally](https://savetheinternet.info/demos) in Austria against article
13 of the proposed changes to copyright law in the EU took place in
Graz. We met up near "Am Eisernen Tor" and then marched through
Herrengasse and Sporgasse over the Schlossberg to Schlossbergplatz
where a couple of speakers from Epicenter.works and some political
parties were waiting for us.

{{< figure src="/media/2019/saveyourinternet-graz.jpg" caption="View onto the Schlossbergplatz" >}}

Sadly, not that many people followed the call to the streets. While
walking down the stairs to Schlossbergplatz I heard quite a few
bystanders wondering what the fuzz was all about.  Sadly, we had far
too few flyers and other info material with us so handing out some
info-sheets wasn't an option. Luckily, I still had one flyer left so I
could at least try to inform some people around me.

To be honest, I was quite surprised about the lack of knowledge around
us regarding the proposed changes. Especiall, since they will affect
not only what could be called "hard-core nerds" but also the masses
that are on Instagram, Youtube etc. It feels like the marketing for
this rally went down the completely wrong channels compared to what
the [#Fridays4Future](https://fridaysforfuture.org/) movement achieved
just 24 hours earlier.

It's probably also not helping that organisations like
[Epicenter.works](https://epicenter.works/) have a very strong
presence on Twitter but are virtually invisible on Instagram. It
doesn't look much better if you look at hits for the
#article13 tag over there. Only around 27.000 posts compared to more
than 60.000.000 estimated videos on Youtube.

The event in Graz felt like a (failed?) test, though, for the rallies
taking place in [Innsbruck](https://epicenter.works/event/1741) and
[Vienna](https://epicenter.works/event/1699) next Saturday (23 March)
alongside events being organized all over Europe. I just hope that we
will be able to mobilize more people next week and create enough force
to gain enough votes against the proposed changes on 26 March.
