---
title: "Watched: The Umbrella Academy (Season 1)"
date: "2019-02-23T12:53:17+01:00"
tags:
- netflix
- entertainment
---

Yesterday night we finished watching season 1 of ["The Umbrella
Academy" on
Netflix](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Umbrella_Academy_(TV_series)). It's
weird, every couple of months there is that one exclusive show that
makes having a Netflix subscription so worth it; and "The Umbrella
Academy" is definitely one of those.

The story revolves around a group of seven gifted adoptive children of
an eccentric billionaire; each one of them with their own unique
talent: One can teleport through space (and time), one can talk to the
dead, and so on. As children they formed the so-called "Umbrella
Academy" and helped solve crimes and did other superhero-stuff. The
show, now, takes place about 20 years later. Everyone has their own
life and problems but they all come together as they learn that their
adoptive father has died. Soon they learn that they have a new task:
To prevent the apocalypse... And all that while trying to evade a pair
of time-traveling assassins.

When I first heard about this show, I somehow always confused it with
something situated inside the Resident Evil universe, but was then
pleasantly surprised when that not to be the case ;) In fact, every
single episode was highly entertaining (more than all Resident Evil
movies combined and then some) with tons of humor hidden between the
problems the group has to face.

Perhaps my highlight is "Number 4" (aka. Klaus) who can talk to the
dead people. His gift drove him nearly crazy and he found a way out by
becoming a drug addict who basically lives from one shot to the
next. His struggles to getting clean are always lightened up by his
world-view which is in stark contrast to his siblings:
Straight-forward yet extremely playful. In one scene, Klaus takes a
bath with some 80s headphones and walks through the family mansion
unaware that this siblings are currently in a firefight with two
assassins from an agency of timeline-guardians.

This scene IMO reflects the whole first season quite well: A tragic
story-line (or actually a couple of them) presented in a highly
entertaining package. I cannot wait for season two, whenever this
might happen!!!
