---
title: "Yoshi's Crafted World (Nintendo Switch)"
date: 2019-05-19T21:54:03+02:00
tags:
- gaming
- nintendo
- nintendoswitch
- review
---

Ever since I played [Yoshi's
Island](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoshi%27s_Island) on the SNES
when I was a kid, I have had a soft spot for that little dino in my
heart. From the sound he(?) makes when converting an enemy into an egg
to his scrambling in the air for some float-action, there is just
something magical about Mario's side-kick.

Nearly two years ago I got [Yoshi's Woolly
World](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoshi%27s_Woolly_World) for the
Nintendo 3DS but started playing it only about two months ago. Once I
was finished with it, I immediately purchases its successor: [Yoshi's
Crafted World](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoshi%27s_Crafted_World)
for the Nintendo Switch.

While the 3DS game was all about the world being made of wool, Crafted
World consists of 16 worlds each made using a specific crafting style,
from card-board cut-outs to quilling. Every world also has a specific
theme ranging from dinosaurs to mines. Unlike the 2017 game, though,
Yoshi's new adventure felt less charming to me, though, and a bit more
repetitive. Sure, there are still tons of surprised hidden throughout
the levels but Woolly World for some reason felt better to me.

This doesn't mean that the Switch game is bad, though. I had (and
continue to have) lots of fun here and will probably even try too find
all the flowers. Every single level is just really well done and also
has a flip-side where you look for escaped mini-poochies and get an
extra flower if you find all three within a tight time-limit.

The game starts of very easy. At first I was a bit afraid it might
feel like *Kirby: Star Allies* and so thought it might not be worth
the â‚¬60. Luckily, the difficulty had a quite pleasant curve and the
last couple of worlds were hard enough that I needed multiple tries.

I definitely don't regret getting *Crafted World*, even though it
feels a bit like *Woolly World* part 2. It still has enough unique
ideas and elements that I can absolutely recommend it to anyone who
liked the WiiU/3DS game. If you haven't played that, give the demo a
try. Just keep in mind, that the demo might appear easier than the
full game actually is (esp. when you want to collect all the flowers).
