---
title: "Frankenstein"
date: 2018-01-01T12:46:47+01:00
tags:
- books
- review
- swordandlaser
---

Another year, another attempt at reading every assignment of the
[Sword-and-laser bookclub](http://swordandlaser.com/): The first one for 2018
was Mary Shelley's [Frankenstein; or, The Modern
Prometheus](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18332652-frankenstein). I had
wanted to read the old horror/fiction-classics like "Frankenstein" and "Strange
Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde" for a long time so this was the perfect
opportunity to get at least one of them off my list.

The story by Mary Shelley surprised me right from the start with the way it was
told. Everything is pretty much a retelling of events by Victor Frankenstein
himself as part of a letter the captain of a polar expedition writes to his
sister in England. I really didn't expect the book to start that far up north
ðŸ˜‰

What I expected instead was that more or the story (if not all of it) would
take place in England and not in Switzerland and Germany. At least that
explains the German name of Victor Frankenstein. That being said, the
characters get around quite a bit. Switzerland, France, Germany, Scotland,
Ireland, England... It reflects the romanticisation of traveling in the 18th
and 19th century.

Compared to some other books from that time, Frankenstein IMHO holds up pretty
nicely! With the rise of AI and genetics topics like "what makes up a living
being" and what rights it should have are now more important than ever. The
book also deals with things like (xeno)phobia.

In general, I really enjoyed this book, something I wouldn't have expected to
this extend.

