---
title: "The Girl with All the Gifts"
date: 2018-01-21T11:02:19+01:00
tags:
- books
- review
- scifi
---

As I wrote a couple of days ago in my little retrospective of 2017 I got an
[Audible](https://audible.com) subscription for Christmas. Now, "[The Girl with
All the
Gifts](https://www.audible.de/pd/English-Science-Fiction-Fantasy/The-Boy-on-the-Bridge-Hoerbuch/B06XTCV44Q/ref=a_search_c4_1_12_srTtl?qid=1516528312&sr=1-12)"
was the first book I wanted to use it with. 

The story is about a little girl called Melanie who lives as a prisoner inside
a military compound somewhere in the UK together with a handful of other
children. The outside world has gone the way of the dodo after a zombie-like
outbreak has taken place and there are only a handful of holdouts of human
society as we know it left. Melanie and the other children are special as they
are infected by whatever caused people to go zombie yet still able to think and
act like normal children unless they smell humans. Then they pretty much become
feral beasts and try to bite everything in their path. To prevent this, they
are usually strapped down in wheelchairs when outside their cells and everyone
else at the base is wearing a special gel that cloaks their body-smell. 

At the compound the children are taught by a handful of teachers to find out on
a psychological level why they are different. From time to time, though, one of
them is taken away to never come back. Then other means are applied to learn
their secret. Every day is pretty much the same for those not being led away
until one day everything changes...

While the book is written not unlike a children's book with most of the story
being told from Melanie's point of view, the theme is far darker than it seemed
at first. The whole world has become a dark place and M. R. Carey did a
phenomenal job filling it with back story but also leave enough mystery in it
to not make it look like your ordinary zombie-apocalypse.

I, honestly, cannot find a single aspect of the book I didn't like. If you
haven't read it yet, do so!

As for the audio book: "The Girl with all the Gifts" was the perfect choice as
a first-audiobook for me. Finty Williams did an excellent job with her
narration and it made me totally forget my experience with [The
Dispatcher](https://zerokspot.com/weblog/2016/10/09/the-dispatcher/). Now I
cannot wait to listen to the second book in that series: [The Boy on the
Bridge](https://www.audible.de/pd/English-Science-Fiction-Fantasy/The-Boy-on-the-Bridge-Hoerbuch/B06XTCV44Q/ref=a_search_c4_1_12_srTtl?qid=1516528312&sr=1-12)!

