# Airplane entertainment vouchers on the horizon?

I don't know about you, but whenever I fly intercontinentally I go through two
emotions in rather quick successions: Happiness, because I can finally watch all
these movies I didn't have the time for at home, and sickness, due to the really
bad screen quality in those on-board entertainment boxes.

So, [Lufthansa announced][lh] a couple of days ago that they will get rid of
these complimentary newspapers and magazines they hand out during or shortly
after boarding. I rarely get any because the ones I actually want are gone
within seconds and/or are these unwieldy piles of paper for which you probably
have to book another seat anyway just to be able to read them.

Instead, you will be able to use your booking code to download up to two
journals starting 3 days before your flight. While that is nice, it kind of
feels like yet another thing airlines remove from their service list, at least
for those who don't have a device to download PDFs to before the flight. Here
some people at least get a replacement that may or may not be better. Still...

That being said, I'll definitely give it a try but let's think (i.e. dream) a
bit further: Wouldn't it be great if something like that were also offered for
movies during intercontinental flights? Not as a direct replacement for the
current on-board systems but as an add-on. At least for me it might help save
a bit of money on prescription glasses but movies are definitely a much harder
problem and given the catastrophe some people call "movie licensing" that
probably won't happen, but one can dream ðŸ˜‰

The big difference between newspapers and movies is here, that one has only a
very limited "shelf-life". Stories are mostly relevant for not much longer than
a week but movies are made for much longer. You'd also have the problem of how
to get these files onto passengers' devices. PDFs are easy, but how would you go
about movies? Offer iTunes vouchers for iOS users only or partner for instance
with Amazon? Going with a DRM-free solution is so much farther down the road to
dreamland, it's hard to describe. Still... it would be soooooo awesome!

But before I get too excited, I should see what they offer me on my flight to
Brussels in two weeks first ðŸ˜‰ If they have Edge Magazine, I'm 100% sold!

[lh]: https://www.lufthansagroup.com/de/presse/meldungen/view/archive/2016/january/14/article/3886.html
