The Sony PRS-650 eReader
########################

I've been playing with the thought of getting an eReader for a very long time.
For some time I could get around with just reading on my iPhone but eventually
this became just to uncomfortable, so I went looking around which device to get.
This was back in `September
<http://zerokspot.com/weblog/2010/09/05/ebook-dilemma/>`_. Two months later I
could finally make up my mind and ordered a `Sony PRS-650 eReader
<http://www.sony.at/product/rd-reader-ebook/prs-650>`_, and since then I've been
using it pretty much every spare minute I had which, I guess, makes me qualified
to finally write a review about it :-)

---------------------------------

The PRS-650 is actually a pretty slick device. It is light while still having a
solid and well-made feel to it. For navigating between pages and books it
features a touch screen interface which you can use either with your fingers or
the bundled stylus, but there are also small buttons at the bottom of the device
for next/previous page, a home button, as well as buttons for accessing the
options and zoom-level menus.

Storage-wise you get about 1.5GB with the option of extending it using either
SD(HC) cards or Memory Sticks, but let's be honest: eBooks are not really all
that huge when it comes to file-size and at least I rarely read more than three
books at the same time, so even the 1.5GB will give me a hard time filling them
up.

When it comes to the software you're presented with a very minimal interface
that only gives you the absolute minimum of options. That said, it is quite
fast. Paging though a book is by no means something you have to find a free spot
in your calendar for and I just love that I can simply use the reader like a
typical USB-mass storage device to manage my books (unless they use Adobe's
DRM).

Regarding the options, I kind of miss one to organize the starting screen a bit
more. By default it lists the book you've read last and the three most recent
books added to your library. Since I usually read at least 2 books in parallel
I'd have appreciated a way to use the second listing for my most recently read
books. It's also not possible to use your current book as "screensaver".
Instead, the reader uses a picture from your picture library (pre-filled with
the Eiffel tower, a snowy road and a palm tree...) and you can only turn off the
screensaver completely but not use the page you're on for that purpose.

But these are just minor issues. When you're reading, you won't notice any of
them and instead just enjoy the brilliant contrast and being able to page at a
comfortable pace...

Unless you encounter a page in an ePub book with a big code listing that tries
to go beyond the page's dimensions (e.g. in a book about programming languages).
In most cases this works well to some degree. Naturally some line-breaking
happens but that's to be expected. What's not to be expected is, that I could
reproducibly create situations with two O'Reilly books that froze the whole
device (which usually initiates a reset).

Luckily, though, these freezes are really very rare. I've read a couple of books
since I got the device and only got lock-ups on two pages. And somehow these
lock-ups were limited to ePubs. When reading the same book as PDF I could get
around the problematic pages.

Regarding reading PDFs: This was one of the features advertised in the press
about this device. It sports a couple of different rendering modes which are
supposed to help with text that is split into multiple columns. I tried it with
a file that only has one column and the page was split up as expected. So if
you're PDF is for instance split into two columns, this should work pretty well.
What I was missing was a way to split a page only vertically and read it in
landscape mode. Theoretically this should be doable by just using the zoom
function, but in practice it somehow isn't. You can still go to landscape mode
but depending on the page size and zoom-level you will get some overlap between
these "virtual" pages. That said: it still works well enough :-) Just don't
expect the "Margin cut" page mode to detect the difference between the footer
and the actual content. So if a page has a wide line in the footer and the page
number right below that in the right corner, the actual page content can have as
big a margin as it wants. I guess, this problem with detecting the actual
content width and providing a better vertical split kind of goes hand in hand
:-)

------------------------------------------

If you're looking for an eBook reader that is well made, features the latest
e-Ink display and supports ePub natively, you can't really go wrong with the
PRS-650 by Sony. While the software is still rough around the edges the
experience is still great. For reading PDFs, though, I'd recommend that you use
the landscape mode unless your page is split into multiple columns and you can
use one of the advanced page modes.