# Firewatch

So, another game. Sorry about that ðŸ˜Š A couple of days after writing about
[Superhot][] and right before getting [The Division][] from Amazon I wanted to
spent a nice cozy weekend in the woods with [Firewatch][]. I had seen some
footage some time earlier on Giantbomb and Good Game and wanted to see if this
mix of a narrative-heavy game with gorgeuos graphics would be something for me.

[superhot]: https://zerokspot.com/weblog/2016/03/06/superhot/
[firewatch]: http://www.firewatchgame.com/
[the division]: http://tomclancy-thedivision.ubi.com/game/en-US/home/

Yes it was. Oh yes, it was ðŸ˜ƒ The game takes place in 1989 with Henry, the
protagonist, trying to escape from a family situation, taking up a job at a
national park in Wyoming. It's rather lonely there as all the contact he has to
the outside world is through his boss Delilah via radio but the game turns into
a mystery quest pretty quickly with some randoms sightings and break-ins. So, no
time for Henry to get bored ðŸ˜‰ You get a map and a compass and off you go and
keep your park in order!

--------

That mystery is just a distraction, though, as the main focus is on Henry and
Delilah and their backstory. The story has some extremely funny but also some
very sad moments. Make sure to play it when you're happy as it contains some
rather tragic parts, too ðŸ™‚

Did I already mention that the game is beautiful? I really felt like I was in a
real park with lakes, animals, lonely walk-ways. This also helps getting over
the sad parts. Just look at that beautiful lake and these awesome mountains and
everything is fine again!

And while not everything you can see is something you can also walk to, there is
still a lot to see. Hidden throughout that park area are lots of little details
and side-stories that you can discover and tell Delilah about. If you only stick
to the bare minimum, though, you should be through the story in 2-3 hours. It's
well worth looking a bit off the main path, though ðŸ˜‰

That being said, I played it on PS4 and there the framerate often fell
dangerously low. Nothing that distracts too much from the otherwise great
expience but more FPS would have been appreciated. I also ran into some weird
control issues with one where I nearly couldn't enter an area. That being said,
the devs are still patching this game so what I'm writing about here might have
already been fixed in the meantime ðŸ˜Š

If you want to spend 2-5 hours in the woods, I can definitely recommend this
game. Sure, EUR 20 for that amount of time sounds a bit much but it was well
worth it ðŸ˜Š
