---
date: '2014-11-23T15:29:50+01:00'
language: en
tags:
- dotjs
- dotconferences
- paris
- travel
- conference
- javascript
title: dotJS 2014
---


It has only been a month since my list visit to Paris but here we go again: This
time a couple of friends and I went there for this year's edition of the dotJS
conference series.

<figure><img src="http://photos.h10n.me/photos/i-frmskbb/0/L/i-frmskbb-L.jpg"
alt=""/><figcaption><p>All speakers on stage</p></figcaption></figure>

As the name indicates, [dotJS][] is organised by the same folks as last month's
[dotGo][]. Unlike that event it was focused on JavaScript and took place at the
[Théâtre de Paris][tdp], situated near Gare Saint-Lazare in the north of the
city.

-----------------

Compared to the [Théâtre des Variétés][tdv] the Théâtre de Paris was built to
accommodate about twice as many people and that was absolutely necessary with
dotJS's about 900 attendees. It was still packed beyond capacity in my opinion
and moving around anywhere during the coffee and lunch breaks was annoying
enough that I eventually opted for just staying seated. That being said, it was
great to see the sponsors getting much more space than with the Théâtre des
Variétés :-)

Let's talk about the seats, though: Back when it was constructued (in [1891][2]
according to Wikipedia), I guess, there probably weren't all that many tall
people around. That at least would be one explanation for why the seats felt
like being designed for children or really small adults. Without having gotten
a seat at the aisles I would have had to sit on the floor because the rows were
far too close to each other.

According to [Sylvain
Zimmer](https://twitter.com/sylvinus/status/536546279195942912) of the orga team
I might have had more luck with my seat on the balcony:

<figure><img src="/media/2014/tweet.png" alt="Silvain's tweet"></figure>

I had actually tried that at dotGo in the smaller theatre, but there the
situation on the balcony was about the same as in the main auditorium here.
A big hurray to aisle-seats, though ;-)

About the conference itself: The format was basically the same as dotGo's with
the day being split into multiple sessions with 3-4 talks each. Between the
sessions was either a coffee break or a really long lunch break, which made it
possible for us to first grab something to eat and then explore the vicinity and
even make our way up to the [Moulin Rouge][mr]. The [talks][1] had in my opinion
with 20 minutes exactly the right length for a single-track conference. This way
the speaker had to focus on one idea and one idea only.

[John David-Dalton][jdalton], for instance, talked about shims and their uses
and dangers. [Julien Lecomte][jl] on the other hand described Yahoo's migration
away from their monolithic YUI towards smaller libraries and frameworks like
React and FormatJS. My personal highlight, though, was [Angus Croll][ac]'s
presentation in which he fought the "x considered harmful" trend reminded us to
keep an open mind to other ideas, similar to how style and best-practices are
treated in literature and arts. He also showed some excerpts of his book "If
Hemingway wrote JavaScript" which is pretty high on my "to-read" list right now.

While some of the talks weren't all that great I was pretty happy with most of
them being to some degree more inspirational than technical. As I wrote before,
I'm not really the biggest fan of the so-called "key notes" but I still prefer
talks that give me new ideas instead of discussing a topic exhaustively.

Will I come back? Perhaps. The talks were mostly good with some real gems in
there, but the venue is sadly less than ideal. Paris not being what you would
call "affordable" doesn't help either. In the end, I might make this
a conference I'd visit every other year ;-)


[1]:http://blog.agbonon.fr/dotjs-2014/
[2]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Th%C3%A9%C3%A2tre_de_Paris
[dotjs]:http://2014.dotjs.eu
[dotgo]:http://www.dotgo.eu
[tdv]:http://www.theatre-des-varietes.fr/
[tdp]:http://www.theatredeparis.com/
[mr]:http://www.moulinrouge.fr/?lang=en
[jdalton]:https://twitter.com/jdalton
[jl]:http://www.julienlecomte.net/blog/
[ac]:http://anguscroll.com/
