---
date: '2014-10-27T21:50:39+01:00'
language: en
tags:
- travel
- canada
- montreal
- toronto
title: Exploring Montreal and Toronto
---


When writing about a conference or other events I attend in some city I've never
been to, I'm trying to keep that post focused exclusively on the event itself
and then follow it up with a separate one about the trip itself. For some reason
I forgot doing that for my trip to [PyCon][pyc] this April where [Ulrich
Petri][ulope] and I first explored Montreal (where the conference took place)
and later Toronto. So here we go: Lengthy post ahead :-)

-----------

## Montreal

<figure><img
src="http://photos.h10n.me/Conferences/Pycon2014/i-JRZP95z/0/L/DSC02682-L.jpg"
alt="Montreal as seen from Mont-Royal"></figure>

As a first-time-visitor to Canada I wasn't really sure what to expect. Sure,
I had been to North America quite a few times already but I imagined Canada to
be different; and Montreal turned out to be just the right amount of that for
me. The mix of French and English culture is just different enough from what
I've become used to when in the USA. Luckily, not knowing French all that well
isn't an issue here, but knowing more definitely helps. 

### Getting there

Getting there, was a bit complicated, though: I usually have to do multiple
city-hops to get any where. This time I had the choice between taking Air Canada
in combination with Lufthansa (via Frankfurt) to fly directly to Montreal or
Austria Airlines (via Vienna) which would first land in Toronto and then
continue with Air Canada to Montreal. IIRC the Austria Airlines flight was
cheaper and there was the chance to get a more modern cabine so I went with
them. The flight itself was pleasant enough but for some reason Air Canada
doesn't provide tickets via Austrian, so I had to pick them up at Toronto
Airport before being able to continue the journey. But, finally, after nearly 15
hours in air planes I arrived at Montreal Airport to meet with a couple of
friends to share a taxi.

### Hotel

Ulrich and I stayed at the [Travelodge Montreal Centre][tmc], by far the largest
Travelodge I've seen so far. It was cheap compared to all the other hotels close
to the conference center but also not really that comfortable. They also managed
to construct the toilet in such a way that you could easily burn your leg on the
heating unit when using the toilet.

Other then that, it was fine and I'm considering staying there again next year.

### Eating & Drinking

<figure><img
src="https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-xCAn3jhe_2k/U1HZVhW8XtI/AAAAAAAAIuY/Aq7aPg2NRmU/w1001-h741-no/IMG_20140418_183306.jpg"
alt=""><figcaption><p>You can't go wrong with Poutine in
Montreal</p></figcaption></figure>

* [Rôtisserie St-Hubert][sh]: Chain of restaurants that serve chicken related
  dishes. Not bad but also nothing special. But they have Hoegaarden in huge
  glasses ;) We even went there twice simply because it was good and spacious.

* [Mâche!][ma] is a tiny restaurant in Montreal's Quartier Latin and serves
  excellent Poutine. It looks like the whole area is extremely francophone, so
  try to order in French first ;-)

* Another chain-restaurant Ulrich and I went to at least twice were [Les
  3 Brasseurs][l3b] in the old town. Nice gastro-pub with decent custom beers
  and simply a great atmosphere.

* Due to some reviews on Foursquare and Yelp we went to [NYKS Bistro Pub][nykes]
  one rainy evening which turned out a hidden gem! Great food, beer menu on
  a chalk board, quick service. Just great (although quite packed)!

* After visiting the Olympic park we were looking for a nice coffee shop and
  found it right next ot the main entrance with the [Station in Vivo][siv] which
  might look like a chain from the outside, but surprisingly wasn't. Great Chai
  Latte!

* If you want awesome food in a tiny, tiny room where you make your orders as
  close to the kitchen as possible, you can find all that and more at the
  [Dinette Triple Crown][d3c]. They don't offer the largest servings, but what
  we got was among the best in all our two weeks in Canada.

* After a recommendation from [Baptiste][bm] we wanted to get some Poutine one
  last time before leaving the city and found the perfect place for that:
  [Poutineville][pv]. You get a checklist and can customize your Poutine exactly
  to your liking. Want two sorts of meat and two sorts of cheese? Not a problem!

### Sights etc.

* I already wrote about the [Biosphere][bio] back in April :-)

* We went to the Olympic Park one afternoon but it was under heavy restaurative
  work and the elevator to the top of the stadium was just far too expensive, so
  we skipped it.

* Be sure to explore Mont-Royal and the surrounding area. Even during the winter
  months just a nice place to sit down and enjoy the view.

* For shopping you might find what you're looking for along Rue Sainte-Catherine
  which is among others the home of the local Apple store and a nice
  [cinema][cin] where we enjoyed the 2nd Captain America movie.

* The city is full of awesome graffiti and other kinds of street-art. Keep your
  eyes open!


## Toronto

<figure><img
src="http://photos.h10n.me/Conferences/Pycon2014/i-z3v3t6H/0/L/DSC02897-L.jpg"
alt="Toronto at night"></figure>

After PyCon Ulrich and I took a nice train ride down to Toronto for another week
to explore another one of Canada's cities. Apart from a short ride from Newark
to Manhattan this was my first time in a train in North America and was really
quite a different experience from European train systems. For one, the whole
organisation felt more akin to airports than trains stations which weight
controls and gates. 

The train trip itself was, sadly, rather boring. I had hoped for some nice
vistas but only the last 30 minutes offered that with a nice view over Lake
Ontario. The train, at least, had power outlets in every seat :-)

It also came as a small shock that everything around Toronto Union Station was
just one big construction site. Given that our hotel was just 3 blocks away, we
felt quite relieved when it wasn't in the thick of it all ;-)

### Hotel

Speaking of the hotel: The [Novotel Toronto Centre][ntc] is really a nice place
to stay. With only 5 minutes to the train station, 10 to the lake, and 10 to the
distillery district, it's a great hub for exploring the city.

The rooms are what you would expect from a Novotel (or a better Hilton if you've
never stayed at a Novotel before) and the breakfast was awesome thanks to fresh
bread and French Toast.

I should perhaps ordering breakfast at hotels more often again just to see the
staff's reaction to a grown up man ordering hot chocolate instead of coffee or
tea ;-)


### Eating & Drinking

* [Amsterdam Brewhouse][ab] was where we eventually ended up right on our first
  evening ... and we came back later during our trip. Brewhouse, sports bar
  , good food, and extremely friedly staff. Perfect! And don't miss the beer
  menu here with some that are only serviced during certain months.

* The [Triple A Bar][3a] is another one of these small restaurants we found
  during our trip with just tons of atmosphere. Here the seller were the BBQ
  dishes with the rips getting quite a lot attention on Yelp et al. Nice place
  and I'd definitely return but probably not for the rips alone :-)

* I like sports bars. And the [Real Sports Bar & Grill][rsb] is probably the
  biggest one I've ever been to with a beer menu that spans 4 pages in the menu
  (and large pages they were). Sadly, the staff wasn't all that friendly and
  I've definitely had better burgers elsewhere, but it is definitely worth
  a visit for the sight alone!

<figure><img
src="https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-x1SRFUYBPOg/U1WojnptSFI/AAAAAAAAHN4/s0VXfKFp9S8/w1001-h741-no/IMG_20140421_192342.jpg"
alt=""><figcaption><p>Real Sports Bar &amp; Grill's
display-madness</p></figcaption></figure>


### Sights etc.

Unfortunately, we didn't see all that much note-worthy in Toronto, probably due
to half of the city being under construction and the rest being not yet ready
for the spring. That being said, here are a few things you should definitely do
when visiting the city:

* Obviously, the CN Tower! It's just such a nice view from up there.

* Take a ferry to the small islands south of the main parts of the city. We went
  there during the night to get some nice night-shots of Toronto, nearly froze
  to death, but it was worth it.

* Watch some of the protests in front of the City Hall while they are still
  there ;-)

* If you've ever watched Warehouse 13, take a stroll through the Distillery
  District to see some of the locations where the show was filmed (esp.
  "London").

* If you like modern museums, the Royal Ontario Museums should offer something
  for you. When we were there they had an exhibition about Chinese culture and
  one about dinosaurs. Great stuff (esp. the ["fish of
  boe"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ocean_sunfish))

* There is a [large mall][ym] in the north of the city which you can easily
  reach via metro from the Union Station. Getting a ticket for that is rather
  complicated but hey ;-)

* Toronto Pearson International has an iPad-enabled lounge where you can order
  via tough-screen! Oh, and power plugs everywhere!


## Misc.

* [Virgin Mobile][vm] has a prepaid plan for about CAD 50 which basically
  brought as through our two weeks in Canada. Some more data would have been
  nice (we got either 250 or 500 MB, can't remember anymore) but at the least
  the reception was never an issue.

* Besides, obviously, Tim Horton's make sure to also give Second Cup a try.
  Great Chai Latte (well, milk with cinnamon).

* If you consider buying some electronics or similar items here, be aware that
  the taxes here are higher than most of the US, so it might not be such a great
  deal after all ;-)


[sh]: http://www.st-hubert.com/salle-manger/complexe-desjardins.en.html

[ma]: http://restaurantmache.com

[l3b]: http://les3brasseurs.ca/eng/location?id=6

[nykes]: http://nyks.ca/

[siv]: http://www.stationinvivo.coop/

[d3c]: https://foursquare.com/v/dinette-triple-crown/4fe3a00ee4b0601ba3ae084e

[pv]: http://poutineville.com/

[bio]: http://zerokspot.com/weblog/2014/04/18/montreal-biosphere/

[cin]: http://www.cineplex.com/Theatre/cinema-banque-scotia-montreal

[ntc]: http://www.novotel.com/gb/hotel-0931-novotel-toronto-centre/index.shtml

[ab]: http://amsterdambrewhouse.com/

[3a]: http://tripleabar.ca/

[rsb]: http://realsports.ca/BarAndGrill/Toronto/

[vm]: http://www.virginmobile.ca/en/home/index.html

[pyc]: http://zerokspot.com/weblog/2014/05/25/pycon-2014/

[ulope]: https://twitter.com/ulope 

[tmc]: http://www.travelodgemontrealcentre.com/

[ym]: http://www.yorkdale.com/

[bm]: https://twitter.com/bmispelon
